How do I actually edit my reels in 2026?
As a full-time business owner with a
team of over 25 people who posts five
plus Instagram reels per day, I'll tell
you exactly how I'm able to manage it
all without spending more than 15 to 20
minutes [music] per day on editing my
Instagram reels. For most business
owners and people trying to grow a
personal brand [music] on Instagram,
editing their reels is a real
bottleneck. And so, in today's episode,
I'm going to share with you my three
keys to being more efficient with your
editing to save time, energy, and
effort, and increase your output without
having to bang your head against the
wall. Now, real quick, I wanted to show
you this thing that's over my shoulder
right here. Let me show you.
>> [music]
>> This is my live real-time follower
tracker. I am on the road to 1 million
followers on Instagram, and I have the
lofty goal of hitting it this year. I'm
currently, at the time of recording
this, at 907,072. [music]
So, if you want to help this tracker go
up, just make sure that you're following
me on Instagram. My Instagram username
is Brock 11 Johnson. And I'm always
[music] surprised how many people follow
me on Instagram but don't listen to my
podcast, or they watch these YouTube
videos every week but they don't follow
me on Instagram. So, just do me a favor
real quick and just double-check that
you are following me on Instagram. And
anyways, I appreciate you, and we'll get
back to the episode. The first key to
editing faster and better for your
Instagram reels is that easy editing
comes from intentional filming. And
here's exactly what I mean by that.
Number one, I almost never record
without at least an outline. I don't
prefer to use a fully typed-out script
because I end up trying to be too
perfect, and I second-guess myself if I
know I'm veering off the script. So,
instead, I like to use point outline,
and then I allow myself to talk
extemporaneously from that outline. This
makes the recording process much more
streamlined and efficient. And then,
when I'm editing, I can refer back to
that outline to see what I was thinking
at different points and what the exact
order of the video was because sometimes
you have to shoot things out of order.
The second thing I do to make my life
and my editor's life, I'll tell you more
about that, easier, is I stop between
sentences. This isn't something that I
necessarily do when I'm recording a
podcast, but when I'm recording a reel
for Instagram, I will stop between each
sentence or even stop between each
independent clause. Which, not to get
too literary, but my sixth-grade English
teacher will definitely be proud of me
for this one. An independent clause is a
section of a sentence, basically, that
can stand on its own. Like, if you were
to put a period at the end of that
phrase, it could be its own sentence.
Oh, and if I ever mess up mid-sentence,
I can then just go back to the beginning
of that sentence and say it again. And I
know that if I make it to the end of
that sentence without a mistake, that
was a good take and I can move on. If I
have some sort of mistake or um, er, or
pause, or I just don't like the way I
said something, I can just go back to
the beginning of that one individual
sentence, rather than having to go back
multiple sentences. Tip number three for
this intentional filming thing is to
pause, make eye contact with the camera,
and maybe even smile between each take,
and smile at the end of each take. Even
if it's just for half a second, it will
make your editing life so much easier,
and you'll avoid those awkward clips
where you're having to start mid-word or
you're having to like cut off part of
the word that you were saying before
because you didn't pause for long
enough. So, just make sure that you hold
eye contact with the camera before you
start your sentence and after that last
word of your sentence, and just sit with
it for a second. Tip number four is to
use visual markers. So, something that I
often like to do is I'll hold my hand up
in front of the camera because that's a
very obvious visual when I'm editing to
say, "Oh, even though there was this
long section that I thought might have
been good, if I'm scrolling through my
editing bar and I see my hand up in
front of the screen or something like
that, I know that I can cut or remove
whatever was right before that section."
And then my fifth tip for intentional
filming is that the last take is the
best take. Now, I know this isn't
necessarily how they do things in
Hollywood. I know that in Hollywood,
they'll do like seven or eight different
best takes and then the professional
editor who's getting paid hundreds of
thousands of dollars, I think that's how
much they make, can decide which take is
best or the director or whoever decides
that, I don't know, can decide which
take is best. But, come on, let's be
real. We're making Reels for Instagram.
Huh, let's be real. Pun not intended,
but pun very much funny. What I'm saying
is, when you say the good take, stop
right there. Don't second-guess yourself
and be like, "Ooh, could I say that
better? Could I say that more concise?
Could I say that again with different
emphasis?" Once you say it good, good
enough is good enough. And stop right
there and move on to the next sentence
or the next phrase or the next clip.
Because if you don't do this, what can
end up happening is that you have a good
take, and then you want to get a better
take, so you do like three or four more
versions of the sentence, but you don't
quite say it right, and then you
eventually go, "You know, that good take
from a few minutes ago, that was good
enough. We'll stick with that." But,
then when you're in editing, you have to
find that from the pile, instead of
being able to just scroll right to the
end of your clip and know that the last
take was the best take. Now that we've
talked about intentional filming, let's
talk about my actual editing stack and
what different editing apps I use.
Number one, the app that I use most
often is CapCut Desktop. Now, CapCut has
a mobile app as well, and that's
actually one of the things that I really
like, is that I can start something on
my phone and then switch over to my
laptop and continue editing it as long
as I'm logged into the same account. I
also really like the advanced features
that CapCut has. It's rare, I would say
it's almost never happened where I've
wanted to do something or wanted to
achieve some sort of effect and haven't
found it possible with CapCut. Now, I do
have the CapCut Premium subscription, so
I do pay for that, but that in my
opinion is a very wise business expense.
And I use the CapCut Desktop app for one
of three different kinds of edits.
Number one is what I will call a medium
edit. This is an Instagram Reel where it
would take more time to upload the
files, write out instructions, send it
to a professional editor, wait for them
to edit it and get it back, than it
would for me to just edit it myself.
This is an edit that's only going to
take, I would say, 5 to 30 minutes at
most. The second kind of edit that I use
the CapCut desktop app for is complex
edits that don't take very long. This is
something that would be like, for
example, a 7-second reel. Something that
it would be silly to send off to an
editor and write instructions for, but
it requires an edit that isn't really
possible on the edits app or in
Instagram. So, I need an app with a
little bit more features, and that's
where CapCut desktop comes in. And then
the third kind of edit that I do on the
CapCut desktop app is long or complex
edits that I need ASAP. I don't have
time to send it off to an editor. I
don't have time to wait for someone else
to make it for me. I need this done
within the next few minutes because
maybe it's Instagram breaking news or
something that just really needs to be
covered today. And so, I will edit that
myself when need be. Back in 2016, when
I started my first real online business,
I remember that my head was filled with
so many what-ifs. What if no one buys
this? What if I'm an impostor? What if
there's no market? What if I can't sell?
What if, what if, what if? What if this
is all just a big waste of time and I'm
just banging my head against the wall.
But what I wish someone told me back
then is, just like you can imagine all
the negative what-ifs, there are just as
many, if not more, positive what-ifs.
What if this works out? What if this is
my breakthrough? What if this is what
sets me financially free? And thanks to
one of today's sponsors, Shopify,
it's easier than ever to turn those
positive what-ifs into reality. Shopify
is the e-commerce platform behind
millions of businesses around the world,
and it now represents about 10% of the
entire e-commerce market in the US. From
some of the most famous and well-known
brands in the world, like Gymshark, to
solopreneurs, Shopify has you covered.
Shopify helps you get the word out about
your e-commerce business as if you had
an entire marketing team behind you. It
easily helps you create email and social
campaigns so that you can attract
customers wherever they're scrolling.
And if you ever get stuck, Shopify has
24/7 round-the-clock award-winning
customer support. That way, you can
tackle the important tasks from
inventory to payments to analytics all
in one place. No need to bookmark
multiple websites and sign up for
multiple tools. You can do it all in
Shopify. It makes your life easier and
it makes your business operations run
smoother. It's time to turn those what
ifs into
with Shopify today. Sign up for your $1
per month trial at shopify.com/tribe.
Go to shopify.com/tribe.
That's s h o p i f .com/tribe.
The second tool that I use in my editing
stack is Gling AI. Gling AI is a tool
that I have recently discovered that I
have been a really big fan of for rough
cut edits. Basically, Gling can take any
long-form video and cut it up to remove
all of the filler, all of the bad takes,
and all of the mistakes that you made
along the way. So, this can take
literally a 20-minute long file and cut
it down to the 11 minutes of usable
footage for your YouTube video, but this
can also be used for your Instagram
Reels. If you were to let's say film 17
different clips for your Instagram Reel
and each clip was like 10 to 15 seconds,
you could put all of those into Gling
and then it will do the rough edit. It
will do the work of removing all the
fillers, removing all of the bad takes,
and it could even add closed captions
and zooms if you want it to. It could
add all of those extra effects. However,
I like to use it for just the rough
edit, like that first step in the
process that oftentimes is very tedious,
takes a lot of time, and it doesn't
really require any creativity or taste
or personality. And then you can bring
in your creativity, taste, and
personality for the final edit where
you're maybe adding sound effects and
adding closed captions and adding any
sort of visuals on the screen that you
might feel to be helpful. But, I do want
to be clear that Gling is different than
some of these other AI tools that just
take YouTube videos and then pull out
clips of them for Instagram Reels. This
is different. This is literally taking
your raw footage and turning it into an
actual usable output. It's not
necessarily making a judgment call as to
like what sections are the best. It's
just saying, "Hey, if this was the best
take out of these three, we'll remove
the first two and then we'll keep the
third." And like I mentioned, Gling can
do short-form content like Reels or
long-form content like YouTube videos.
In fact, the YouTube video that you are
watching right now was rough cut by
Gling and then my professional editor
went in and did all the final splicing,
the motion graphics, and all of those
sorts of things. Shoutout Kylie. The
third editing app that I use in my
process is the Edits app right on my
phone. Now, I want to quickly dispel a
myth. You will not get preferential
treatment for using the Edits app, nor
will you get diminished views on your
Reels for using CapCut or any other
editing app. It does not matter where
you edit your Reels. But, I do like to
use the Edits app if I'm doing like a
quick edit or something that I need to
do while I'm on the go, while I'm out
and about, because I love the mobile
aspect of the Edits app. And I
specifically use the Edits app if it's a
trend that has to use Instagram specific
audio, because then I can import the
saved audio right from Instagram, and I
can edit to the beat, and I can do all
of those sorts of things that I really
couldn't do on any other editing app, at
least not easily. And then I can post it
right from Edits onto Instagram. And
then fourth, last but definitely not
least, I do have professional editors
who do work on the team. One of them is
Kylie, who I mentioned earlier. Hi
Kylie. He's the one who edits these
YouTube videos, so shoutout to him. And
then the other one is Hannah, who has
been editing my content on Instagram, my
Reels specifically, for the last three
or four years. And I mainly use Hannah
for editing my Reels when it's something
that's really long and complex, when
it's something that I don't need in a
quick turnaround, like I need it within
a week or two, which is still pretty
quick, but it's something that I don't
need to edit it myself, I don't need to
post it like this hour, I can wait and
let someone else do it for me, or if
there's something that's just outside of
my paygrade, something that I'm not very
good at. maybe there's um a kind of edit
or a style that I want her to achieve
that I know I can't do myself or at
least not easily, not very efficiently,
I will pass that off to her. And I don't
think it's absolutely necessary to hire
an editor just for your Instagram Reels,
but if you're someone who really wants
to be a business owner and focus on
growing your brand, growing your
business, I do think that bringing on an
editor can make a big difference because
sure, you might only be spending 30
minutes here, an hour there, 15 minutes
here editing your Reels, but that can
add up and that is time that you could
spend on other areas of your business.
So again, I still do my quick edits
myself and by quick, I mean things that
either are not going to take a lot of
time or I need them very quickly, but I
do try to pass off the rest of my
editing and the rest of my Reels to
Hannah. Which by the way, I will put her
link down in the description below if
you want to check her out. She has an
entire team of editors now who work for
her, who help uh edit Reels on her
behalf and with her and they've all been
trained by her. So anyways, I'll link
her up in the show notes. Now, with all
of that being said, let's talk about the
actual tips in the editing process that
can make things more fast and efficient
and these are tricks that I've picked up
over the last really 15 plus years
because I don't talk about this all the
time, but I actually took three years of
video production in high school and I
minored in film studies in college. So
this was kind of my thing. This was my
jam before I ever knew that I would go
into content creation. And I should say
with that being said, I'm not claiming
I'm an expert. I'm not claiming that I
am like a professional editor or
anything like that, but I have picked up
a few tricks and tips make things more
efficient. Tip number one is edit on
your desktop. I know that I already
talked about CapCut desktop, but editing
on your computer is so much faster than
editing on your phone and most apps have
additional features or capabilities on
your computer, on your laptop, on your
desktop than they do on just the mobile
app. Tip number two is to edit based off
the audio, not based off the video. What
I mean by that is as you're scrolling
through your timeline and you're editing
your content, don't watch the entire
video and actually don't even watch
anything at all. Don't look at the
actual preview window, just look at the
audio file down at the bottom and you'll
be able to tell when you were talking
and when you weren't. That way you can
jump right to the actual clip, right to
the actual moment where you were saying
the sentence or the phrase. And if
you're using the strategy that I talked
about earlier where it's last take best
take, you can fast forward right to the
last take and you can cut right at the
moment the sound waves begin and you can
add a second cut right at the moment the
sound waves end and there, within a
matter of just microseconds, you have
your good take cut out. Tip number
three, and this one is only possible if
you're editing on a desktop and not
actually on your mobile phone, is to use
commands and shortcuts which make the
whole thing more efficient. For example,
there's the classic command C for copy
and command V for paste, but also most
editing apps have command B for blade
which cuts whatever you're looking at
right then and there. Also, most editing
apps, if you tap just the A key and not
even command A, but just the A key, you
will cycle your cursor between different
actions so you can move from just the
normal cursor to the cursor where you
can click and drag to the cursor that
actually operates as a blade and then
any place you click automatically cuts
the video right there. And there are
dozens of keyboard shortcuts that you
can use in your desktop editor that make
it so much more efficient. I'll put a
bunch of them on the screen right now.
Feel free to take a screenshot of this
and refer to it the next time you are
editing on CapCut desktop. And then my
final tip for making your editing more
efficient is to do one task at a time.
In fact, the day that I filmed this
podcast, I recorded about 15 reels on my
phone, but I haven't touched any of them
yet. I haven't uploaded any of them yet.
I haven't edited any of them yet because
that's part of this entire process. Film
a bunch at once, edit a bunch later. But
even within the task of editing, do one
thing at a time. So instead of doing
each individual clip, editing it,
removing the bad takes, doing the
lighting, doing the coloring, doing the
cropping, doing the sound effects, and
doing all of that, just do one thing at
a time. In one pass through your video,
remove all of the bad takes. In the
second pass through your video, improve
the lighting or the positioning, the
cropping of your content. Then, in
another take, maybe you're going to do
the filtering of the video to make sure
that the colors look correct. Then, in
another take, you're going to go through
and make sure that all of the audio
sounds good and all the audios are level
so it's not one clip super loud and one
clip super quiet. Then, the second to
last thing I do is I add the closed
captions and I make sure that those look
how I want. And in the very final touch
that I do is sound effects or video
effects or any sort of like filters or
like and I'm saying like body filters or
face filters, like the funny filters or
anything like that that I want to add
onto the screen, I do that very last
once the rest of the edit is done. But,
when you break down this big task of
editing into these smaller chunks, you
allow yourself to stay focused and thus
be more efficient with each step in the
process instead of having to jump from
this task to this task to this task
within the editing process. If you found
this episode helpful, don't forget to
hit the thumbs up button. And if you
want a more in-depth tutorial about some
specific editing feature or some
specific editing effect, maybe in the
edits app or in CapCut, let me know in
the comments below and I always read
through my comments. Thank you so much
for being here today and as always,
happy networking.
>> [music]